README.md, before:

Account API demo in Java + Spark with JUnit tests.

- run with ./rundev.sh
- test with mvn test

# Temporary notes

- using namespaces based on features not layer (to avoid splitting e.g. interface, model and DAO across multiple folders)
- thought process
    - accounts can store different types of values - money, cryptocurrencies, and securities (keeping to these 3)
    - transfer must be between compatible types of accounts
    - accounts can be owned by individuals, but also companies
    - accounts may require multi-user approval (e.g. there could be escrow requirements, or a company account can be controlled by some board members jointly, but not individually)
        - the authorization requirements stem from the individuals, not the accounts (e.g. person A can control an account on their own, but person B and C need to do it jointly)
    - some users can initiate a transfer request (but not initiate the actual transfer). E.g. a user specifies "I need to pay X", but a different user must approve
    - some transactions need more information to be approved (approval by user X, or multiple users, or even paperwork, or even manual admin approval/account on hold), and then they can be executed
    - some transactions will be denied after providing more information (e.g. need KYC for user X, and KYC indicates they are in a sanction list)
    - some transactions will always have priority, and some transactions will be automatic (provided there is sufficient balance)
        - e.g. automatic mortgage payment to the bank's account (which can leave the account in the red)
    - some transactions will be timed
    - some transactions will allow overdraft, some will not
        - some of this determined by the account type (credit account) and some determined by special privileges (e.g. Nordea allows an overdraft transaction from a regular account, if they are the recipient)
    - KYC/sanction lists (abstract away as an opaque thing)
    - security
        - 1 security check is "is this transaction approved by the people who have the legal authority"
        - another is - can this transaction go through at all? (sufficient balance/involved accounts on hold/missing KYC/sanction list information for the recipients)
    - when is a transfer marked completed?
        - wire/SEPA/cryptocurrencies? Not sure how it goes re: SEPA/wire/stock transfers, but different cryptocurrencies need different confirmation counts
        - stub out a transaction approval service, which marks "in progress" transactions as completed?
    - there needs to be some notification capability (to know when e.g. final approval needs to be done for a transaction) associated with this
    - legal approval for transactions comes from just 1 place (the owner of the account, which is an entity not a user)
        - legal approval for an entity is composed by multiple users
    - who can own accounts?
        - at a granular level, individuals, for-profits, governments, charities, etc.
        - for the purposes of approval, this is not important. Need to map "rules" on how users form a definitive legal approval.
        - individuals
        - legal entities
    - ASSUMPTION: approval will always come down to a "person" approving or denying something. Should systems approve something?
    - ASSUMPTION: though end-user authentication is not involved, it could be useful to have "forced" transactions require a signature from an HSM (to avoid tampering by employees, even for an internal system)
    - accounts should have some type of algorithmic visually distinguishable name (to ease maintenance/use/development when you see e.g. transfers between "SEPA:LV40HABA..." to "ETH:0x123..." instead of between "512" to "152")
    - SKIPPED: for an internal system, need to get feedback about "what's next" so the frontend can gather that data etc.
        - out of scope. This API only reacts to events, so whichever system interacts with it, can also generate the notifications
    - detailed auditing is important, so allow for that
        - just a dummy interface, as it is out-of-scope, and detailed requirements would probably come from the legal department
- conclusions:
    - same user or other users can submit information required to approve the transaction
    - accounts have two balances (actual, and available)
    - transactions need to have ways to be flagged (maybe not on the transaction object, but invoke another API which decides who and when to notify)
    - how to model approval
        - not via Users/LegalEntities/etc. (irrelevant and constricting at this level), but with Approvers
            - each approver has a Guid (can map to tax residency numbers, company IDs, private keys)
            - system accepts a blank "Approver X says Yes/No"
            - all will be verified, despite being an internal system:
                - i.e. frontend claims user X pressed Approve, but they still have to enter a 2FA code
                - OPTIONAL: automatic acceptance if no 2FA enabled, OR for small sums (e.g. until a threshold)
                - i.e. cryptocurrency transfer could require a verifiable signature, which allows keeping the keys with the user (and even could require response to a challenge, in case of non-custodial multisig/interaction with smart contracts)
                - a "forced" transaction needs to be signed by an HSM to minimize risk of employee negligence/mistakes/malicious use (for auditors)
                - approval can take the form of a digitally signed document (so a user can e-mail it in). The system can verify it contains "I approve transaction X" and is signed in an eIDAS compliant manner
        - implementation ideas:
            - system generates "approval requests" and waits for them to be submitted by the outside system
            - approval requests need to model AND and OR relationships. Hierarchy could be:
                - TransferRequest
                |-- TransferApprovalRequestGroup (type AND) (one root group for each request, parent NULL)
                  |-- TransferApprovalRequest  (refers to the group) (can contain a challenge etc.)
                  |-- TransferApprovalRequestGroup (type AND/OR) (parent group is NOT NULL)
            - this allows modelling multisig, multi factor authorization etc.
            - distinction between group/request can further be removed, by having requests point to an optional parent-request
    - proposed transaction lifecycle:
        - a user or a system creates a transaction request:
            - check if they have permission to create the request
            - check if there is sufficient (confirmed) balance in the account
                - if insufficient balance, check max overdraft. Allow to override (since this is an internal system API) to force the payment regardless
        - check the transaction legal approval workflow:
            - always ends with some [users] (not entities) who can approve the transaction (in case of a multisig account, require approval of multiple, but eventually it will be just one)
            - notify the users when they are added to a transaction request as approvers (or when the transaction is prematurely denied by somebody)
            - can have multiple steps (e.g. before a user can start approving, they may be required to submit KYC information, and a sanctions checks might be run, which determines final eligibility to participate. If ineligible, transaction not cancelled, but flagged)
        - when approved, transaction goes into "pending" state and the "available" value of the account changes
            - marked as "finalized" by an external service


        -

Commit message:

Initial implementation pending cleanup (see below for description)
- transfer lifecycle is:
  1. create a TransferRequest
  2. submit information to approve it (depending on ApprovalRequirements)
    2.1. Approval is handled by an ApprovalService, so it can be an external API
  3. after approval, a Transfer object can be created based on the TransferRequest
  4. the transfer is initially pending, so it must be confirmed as finished (as
     different types of transfers could have different confirmation requirements)

README.md, after:

Account API demo in Java + Spark with JUnit tests.

- run with ./rundev.sh
- test with mvn test

# Temporary notes

- using namespaces based on features not layer (to avoid splitting e.g. interface, model and DAO across multiple folders)
- thought process
    - accounts can store different types of values - money, cryptocurrencies, and securities (keeping to these 3)
    - transfer must be between compatible types of accounts
    - accounts can be owned by individuals, but also companies
    - accounts may require multi-user approval (e.g. there could be escrow requirements, or a company account can be controlled by some board members jointly, but not individually)
        - the authorization requirements stem from the individuals, not the accounts (e.g. person A can control an account on their own, but person B and C need to do it jointly)
    - some users can initiate a transfer request (but not initiate the actual transfer). E.g. a user specifies "I need to pay X", but a different user must approve
    - some transactions need more information to be approved (approval by user X, or multiple users, or even paperwork, or even manual admin approval/account on hold), and then they can be executed
    - some transactions will be denied after providing more information (e.g. need KYC for user X, and KYC indicates they are in a sanction list)
    - some transactions will always have priority, and some transactions will be automatic (provided there is sufficient balance)
        - e.g. automatic mortgage payment to the bank's account (which can leave the account in the red)
    - some transactions will be timed
    - some transactions will allow overdraft, some will not
        - some of this determined by the account type (credit account) and some determined by special privileges (e.g. Nordea allows an overdraft transaction from a regular account, if they are the recipient)
    - KYC/sanction lists (abstract away as an opaque thing)
    - security
        - 1 security check is "is this transaction approved by the people who have the legal authority"
        - another is - can this transaction go through at all? (sufficient balance/involved accounts on hold/missing KYC/sanction list information for the recipients)
    - when is a transfer marked completed?
        - wire/SEPA/cryptocurrencies? Not sure how it goes re: SEPA/wire/stock transfers, but different cryptocurrencies need different confirmation counts
        - stub out a transaction approval service, which marks "in progress" transactions as completed?
    - there needs to be some notification capability (to know when e.g. final approval needs to be done for a transaction) associated with this
    - legal approval for transactions comes from just 1 place (the owner of the account, which is an entity not a user)
        - legal approval for an entity is composed by multiple users
    - who can own accounts?
        - at a granular level, individuals, for-profits, governments, charities, etc.
        - for the purposes of approval, this is not important. Need to map "rules" on how users form a definitive legal approval.
        - individuals
        - legal entities
    - ASSUMPTION: approval will always come down to a "person" approving or denying something. Should systems approve something?
    - ASSUMPTION: though end-user authentication is not involved, it could be useful to have "forced" transactions require a signature from an HSM (to avoid tampering by employees, even for an internal system)
    - accounts should have some type of algorithmic visually distinguishable name (to ease maintenance/use/development when you see e.g. transfers between "SEPA:LV40HABA..." to "ETH:0x123..." instead of between "512" to "152")
    - SKIPPED: for an internal system, need to get feedback about "what's next" so the frontend can gather that data etc.
        - out of scope. This API only reacts to events, so whichever system interacts with it, can also generate the notifications
    - detailed auditing is important, so allow for that
        - just a dummy interface, as it is out-of-scope, and detailed requirements would probably come from the legal department
    - accounts and transfer requests probably need some type of nonce value (so that we don't accidentally create two requests simultaneously, that could affect each others' balances)
    - a mechanism for splitting the output of a transfer (e.g. add a transfer fee)
        - keep the responsibility of determining this outside of this project
- conclusions:
    - what of different values? must go through some kind of conversion
        - prohibited for now
    - same user or other users can submit information required to approve the transaction
    - accounts have two balances (actual, and available)
    - transactions need to have ways to be flagged (maybe not on the transaction object, but invoke another API which decides who and when to notify)
    - how to model approval
        - not via Users/LegalEntities/etc. (irrelevant and constricting at this level), but with Approvers
            - each approver has a Guid (can map to tax residency numbers, company IDs, private keys)
            - system accepts a blank "Approver X says Yes/No"
            - all will be verified, despite being an internal system:
                - i.e. frontend claims user X pressed Approve, but they still have to enter a 2FA code
                - OPTIONAL: automatic acceptance if no 2FA enabled, OR for small sums (e.g. until a threshold)
                - i.e. cryptocurrency transfer could require a verifiable signature, which allows keeping the keys with the user (and even could require response to a challenge, in case of non-custodial multisig/interaction with smart contracts)
                - a "forced" transaction needs to be signed by an HSM to minimize risk of employee negligence/mistakes/malicious use (for auditors)
                - approval can take the form of a digitally signed document (so a user can e-mail it in). The system can verify it contains "I approve transaction X" and is signed in an eIDAS compliant manner
        - implementation ideas:
            - system generates "approval requests" and waits for them to be submitted by the outside system
            - approval requests need to model AND and OR relationships. Hierarchy could be:
                - TransferRequest
                |-- TransferApprovalRequestGroup (type AND) (one root group for each request, parent NULL)
                  |-- TransferApprovalRequest  (refers to the group) (can contain a challenge etc.)
                  |-- TransferApprovalRequestGroup (type AND/OR) (parent group is NOT NULL)
            - this allows modelling multisig, multi factor authorization etc.
            - distinction between group/request can further be removed, by having requests point to an optional parent-request
    - proposed transaction lifecycle:
        - a user or a system creates a transaction request:
            - check if they have permission to create the request
                - out of scope!
            - check if there is sufficient (confirmed) balance in the account
                - if insufficient balance, check max overdraft. Allow to override (since this is an internal system API) to force the payment regardless
        - check the transaction legal approval workflow:
            - always ends with some [users] (not entities) who can approve the transaction (in case of a multisig account, require approval of multiple, but eventually it will be just one)
            - notify the users when they are added to a transaction request as approvers (or when the transaction is prematurely denied by somebody)
            - can have multiple steps (e.g. before a user can start approving, they may be required to submit KYC information, and a sanctions checks might be run, which determines final eligibility to participate. If ineligible, transaction not cancelled, but flagged)
        - when approved, transaction goes into "pending" state and the "available" value of the account changes
            - marked as "finalized" by an external service

-known issues
 - manual testing delay
 - in-memory DAO applies updates without calling update() - this ruins some tests
 - in-memory transaction rollbacks do nothing
- considerations
  - chosen framework treats "accounts/" different from "accounts", which is unforgiving to clients (common to use both interchangeably). Since an internal API, not a public one, could be fine.
  - testing the API via HTTP calls (slower, but for an API, I think justifyable. Since the implementation classes are special-built for 1 use, it makes sense to test the outermost interface)

        -
